doc: stdcm: add documentation (#72)
DGEXSolutions/osrd-website: content/docs/reference/design-docs/stdcm/pathfinding_module/inputs/index.en.md

---
title: "Input format"
linkTitle: "1 - Input format"
weight: 10
---

This module takes several parameters to find a path:

- A graph describing the physical infrastructure
- Unavailable sections in time intervals
- Origin and destination point(s)
- Departure time interval
- Maximum run time
- Simulation parameters (rolling stock, time step, allowances, ...)

Among those, the first 3 require more explanations.

#### Infrastructure graph

Today, the input graph is the `SignalingRoutes` graph.
But it can be any graph that represents the physical infrastructures
and the paths that can be used.

> The only constraints are: the edges must have a length, and it must
> be possible to do running time simulations on parts of an edge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The only constraints are: the edges must have a length, and it must
be possible to compute running time on parts of an edge.
```

#### Unavailable sections

This input encodes the areas that are unavailable because of
capacity constraints.

Every edge has a set of "occupancy block". A block is made of these elements:
- Start offset
- End offset
- Start time
- End time

Offsets are relative to the start of the edge. Each block means that
the *head* of the train cannot be located in the edge
segment during the given interval.

These blocks include the grid margin. If the solution needs to have
an `x` seconds margin before the train passage, every block ends
`x` seconds later.

To give an example, with the following schedule, a 42m long train,
and 10m sight distance:

> ![Exemple de sections non disponibles](unavailable_sections.svg)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Unavailable section example](unavailable_sections.svg)
```
